Motor Controllers

How they work
The motor controllers that we have use use 4 pins to control 2 motors (2 each).
It uses the E (Enable Pins) and the M (Signal Pins) to control the speed and direction of the motors.
Using the Table below you can make the motor go forwards or backwards.
(Image 4)

Applications for Motor controller
Motor controllers can be used in a wide range of applications.
They are preferable to connecting the motor straight to a battery as it can be used to switch the direction and speed of the motor.
They are commonly used in rovers because they allow them to be ran in reverse
They are also commonly used in robots

Getting Started with a motor controller
To get started with a motor control replicate the diagram and code below
If it doesn't work make sure your connections are good
(Images 1 & 2)

Two motors going in reverse directions
Very similar to prior code
Rather than the speed oscillating  like in the last one it is always high (does not have to be).
Different M values for the different motors depending on direction you want them to spin
Use chart as reference 
(Images 3 & 4)

Variable Speed Control using a Joystick.
A joystick can be used to control the speed of a motor by mapping the location of the joystick to the speed.  
The circuit shown on the left is an example of how to wire the joystick to the arduino.
Utilise the map function to control the speed (as seen below)
Set the maximum value of the Y coordinate to be 255, which is the maximum speed you can set to a motor through an analog pin.
(Images 5 & 6)

Forwards and backwards at variable speed
To make a motor go backwards, you make the M pin set to low. 
Then set the E pin to be attached to the values of the joystick.
Note that one of the values is 255, this is because that is the maximum speed.
Also note that when going backwards, the positions must be set to negative values.
(Images 7 & 8)

Practice Problem 1
Create a circuit using the components listed 
Your circuit must make the motor spin
DC Motor
H-Bridge
7.5 V Battery
Arduino UNO 
Or Arduino MEGA

Practice Problem 2
Using the same circuit as before
Make it spin at 10% of max speed forwards
Make it spin at 100% of max speed in reverse 
Make it spin 70% of max speed forwards 
Make it spin 30% of max speed in reverse

Practice Problem 3
Add another motor to the circuit 
Make one motor spin backwards the other forwards 
Swap the directions 
See if you can make them spin at different speeds

Practice Problem 4
Create a new circuit using parts listed
Remap the joystick so fully forward is full speed and fully backwards is off
Then try remap the joystick so fully forward is forwards, rest is off and fully backwards is reverse 
DC Motor
H-Bridge
7.5 V Battery
Arduino UNO or Arduino MEGA
Joystick


Challenge
Create a circuit with parts listed
The two motors must spin in opposite directions at all times
The joystick up and down must control the speed of both motors
The speeds of the motors must be opposite 
i.e when A is at max B is off
The Joystick left and right must invert the direction of the motors
I.e means if Motor A spins forwards B spins backwards normal it pushed to either side means B spins forwards A spins back
DC Motor
H-Bridge
7.5 V Battery
Joystick
DC Motor
Or Arduino MEGA

